Project Background and Objectives

We are undertaking a strategic digital transformation of our distributor platforms to enhance

the productivity and experience of our insurance advisors and sales managers. This

transformation is expected to deliver tangible improvements across key dimensions of sales

enablement and engagement.

Key Objectives:

• Improve advisor productivity through enhanced lead-to-sale efficiency

• Strengthen advisor activation, and retention

• Drive increased adoption and usage of the distributor platform

To enable these outcomes, we are developing an AI-powered omnichannel sales enablement

platform, accessible via chat interfaces such as WhatsApp, web, and more. This solution will

streamline advisor workflows and provide intelligent, real-time support to both insurance

advisors and sales managers. As part of this transformation program, we are also revamping

the assisted customer onboarding journeys for the agency and bancassurance channels which

are currently supporting 26 products across different lines of business.

Core Functional Capabilities of the Sales Enablement Platform:

1. AI assistant with multi-agent orchestration

AI assistant built on a unified orchestration framework that coordinates specialized

agents to autonomously deliver multiple use cases. The framework should also support

integration with third-party agents.

2. Conversational AI capabilities

o Transcription and summarization of voice and text inputs

o Natural, multilingual conversational interfaces with vernacular language

support

o Metadata extraction from user prompts to facilitate integration with internal

and external systems

3. AI-powered outbound calling

Human-like, multilingual voice agents for outbound engagement, capable of conducting

structured conversations and capturing responses accurately.

Revamped Distributor Platform for SBI Life Insurance

Confidential

4. Automated collateral generation

AI-driven generation of sales collaterals and summaries using pre-defined templates,

contextual prompts, and conversation history.

5. AI-based lead scoring and qualification

Intelligent lead evaluation and prioritization using predictive AI models.

6. Seamless integration with WhatsApp and core systems

The platform will be integrated with WhatsApp and core enterprise systems including

CRM, Policy Administration System (PAS), and Document Management System

(DMS) to enable contextual, end-to-end workflows.

7. Multi-language support

Comprehensive support for regional Indian languages to serve a diverse and

geographically distributed user base, including robust handling of code-mixed

conversations and vernacular languages written in the English script

Additional Context:

• The platform will be deployed in AWS or GCP-based cloud environment.

• It must be fully compliant with applicable data privacy, security, and regulatory

guidelines.

• Model learning and improvements derived from our use cases will remain our

intellectual property.

• Data shared or generated through the engagement on the platform must not be used

to train or fine-tune any underlying large language models

• The solution is expected to serve a user base of over 300,000+ advisors and sales

managers across India.

3. Information Requested

To assess your capabilities and suitability for this initiative, we request detailed responses to

the areas outlined below. Following the evaluation of submissions, we intend to conduct

solutioning workshops with shortlisted partners. This exercise will culminate in a closed

Request for Proposal (RFP) process to select the SI partner.

# Information

requested

Description

1 Relevant case

example(s)

Please provide 2–3 relevant case examples (in

insurance, BFSI or other industries) that demonstrate

your capabilities in building omnichannel platforms with:

• Multi-agent orchestration

Revamped Distributor Platform for SBI Life Insurance

• AI-based transcription and summarization

• Automated content generation

• AI-led lead scoring and qualification

• WhatsApp or messaging platform integration

Please provide 2-3 relevant case examples (in

insurance, BFSI or other industries) that demonstrate

your capabilities in building modern applications

featuring assisted and self-serve onboarding

journeys.

For each example, include:

• Solution Overview: Brief description and key technologies used

• Business Impact: Measurable outcomes delivered

• Client Reference: Name, industry, and geography (anonymized if needed)

2 Team Composition For each case example shared, please provide:

Team Structure

• Team size

• Key roles involved (e.g., Solution Architect, AI Engineer, NLP Specialist, Integration Lead)

• Relevant experience of team members in similar

implementations

Specialist Fintech Partners (if any)

• Name of the partner organization

• Specific use cases or components delivered

(e.g., speech-to-text, WhatsApp API, vernacular AI, etc.)

3 Tools and Platforms For each case example shared for the omnichannel platform, please list the key tools, frameworks, and

platforms used across the following areas:

1. Multi-Agent Orchestration

(e.g., LangChain, OpenDialog, CrewAI, custom frameworks)

2. Workflow Automation & System Integration

3. Monitoring, Security & Performance






